receipt sequences (#174)
fiskaltrust/interface-doc: doc/appendix-de-kassensichv/cash-register-integration/receipt-sequences-creation.md

---
slug: /poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/receipt-sequences-creation
title: Receipt sequences creation
---

# Receipt sequences creation

> In the chapter [Single receipt creation](https://docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/docs/poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/single-receipt-creation), the creation of single receipts using either implicit and/or explicit flow has been described.

Reviewer: link does not work for me

Author: it will work once the PR is merged (hopefully...)

In this chapter, we will describe how to connect those single receipts to receipt sequences to integrate complex business cases.

> ## Referencing previous receipts within a queue

Reviewer: maybe we should think about a another wordin see comment line 33

Author: we'll use "actions"

#### Use case examples

- Multiple (long lasting) transactions/orders/consumptions before payment is made (gastronomy, ...)
- NFC-based/membership-based order solutions (e.g. accommodation/wellness, employee cards)
- Down payments

#### How to use

Connect requests representing a business action with ['cbReceiptReference'](https://docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/docs/poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/data-structures#single-fields).

#### Workflow example

![referencing-previous-receipts](media/referencing-previous-receipts.png)
Two friends are having a beer in a bar.  Because it is good German beer, they are ordering another one. They pay with one bill.

#### Code examples

Code examples of receipt sequences can be found in our [postman collection](https://middleware-samples.docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/#e9b0b712-2dda-4c4c-a061-16d72daa723b).

> ## Splitting receipts

Reviewer: should we distinguish here between a bill, a pos receipt, a order? or are all this receipts? in the example we are splitting the payment in to two pos-receipts.

Author: totally right, i renamed it to pos-receipt to be more specific

#### Use case examples

- Order(s) paid by multiple people
- Voiding/cancelling receipts

#### How to use

Use ['cbReceiptPreviousReference'](https://docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/docs/poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/data-structures#single-fields) to point to a 'cbReceiptReference' of a previous request to split or void a receipt.

#### Workflow example

<img src="media/splitting-receipts.png" alt="splitting-receipts" style="zoom:50%;" />

Two friends are having a beer in a bar.  Each of them is paying his own consumption. Therefore, the receipt has to be split.

### Code examples

> Code examples of splitting receipts can be found in our [fiskaltrust.Middleware](https://middleware-samples.docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/#86967a8f-a1fe-4262-975e-c4a155209cb3).

Reviewer: i think it should say "in our postman collection" or " in our middleware samples"

Author: true

> ## Merging receipts

Reviewer: wording again

1. A couple performs a check-in at the reception of a hotel for one night.
2. An info-order for the overnight-stay is created.
3. After the check-in, it decides to have a beer at the hotel-bar, which uses a different POS system (or fiskaltrust.queue). The consumption of the hotel-bar shall be paid with the final invoice of the overnight-stay. The room number is for 'cbArea' to provide information why the business actions across the different POS systems are connected. 
4. For the check-out, the receipt of the consumption of the hotel-bar and the receipt of the overnight stay need to be merged. Therefore, 'info-internal' receipts with a new, common 'cbReceiptReference' are created. One 'info-internal' receipt is used to reference to the external POS receipt using 'ftReceiptCaseData'. 
5. The other 'info-internal' receipt is used to reference to the internal 'info-order' of the overnight-stay using 'cbPreviousReceiptReference'. 
6. A 'POS receipt' is created, including all collected charge-items from external and internal POS system(s), and the pay-items of the internal POS system. The receipt is printed and handed over to the couple.

#### Code examples

> Code examples of referencing external receipts can be found in our postman collection.

Reviewer: Link is missing here

Author: yes, because i don't know it yet. has to be published first. i wrote some tasks in our pbi to not forget that..:)

---
slug: /poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/receipt-sequences-creation
title: Receipt sequences creation
---

# Receipt sequences creation

> In the chapter [Single receipt creation](https://docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/docs/poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/single-receipt-creation), the creation of single receipts using either implicit and/or explicit flow has been described.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the chapter [Single receipt creation](single-receipt-creation.md), the creation of single receipts using either implicit and/or explicit flow has been described.
```

Reviewer 2: Please use relative links when working within the same repository, as these direct links are hard to maintain and also break the build if the content doesn't exist yet 🙂

![multi-purpose-voucher](media/multi-purpose-voucher.png)

> A customer at Club Med charges his bracelet with 100 €, which is used within the club area as a money substitute. Multiple consumptions are made using different POS systems. Each POS system uses its own different POS receipt IDs, and 'cbArea' is changing as well. At check-out, the customer is getting paid out the remaining credit on the bracelet. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A customer at a thermal spa charges a NFC-bracelet with 100 €, which is used within the spa area as a money substitute. Multiple consumptions are made using different POS systems. Each POS system uses its own different POS receipt IDs, and 'cbArea' is changing as well. At check-out, the customer is getting paid out the remaining credit on the bracelet. 
```

Author: than you a lot, Axel!!!

> In this example, we are using the payitem option for managing the multi-purpose voucher transactions. A negative amount of 'ftPayItemCase' `0x444500000000000D` gets converted to a multi-purpose voucher purchase. 'ftPayItemCaseData' is being used to add the additional information of the use of the "NFC-bracelet NR. 321". In this case, the bracelet can be used as identifier across multiple involved POS systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, we are using the payitem option for managing the multi-purpose voucher transactions. A negative amount of 'ftPayItemCase' `0x444500000000000D` gets converted to a multi-purpose voucher purchase. 'ftPayItemCaseData' is being used to add the additional information of the use of the NFC-bracelet (e.g."NFC-bracelet NR. 321"). In this case, the NFC-bracelet can be used as identifier across multiple involved POS systems.
```
